
## Downloading the data and creating the masks

If you want to download the original data and process by yourself, the code inside the folder `src/landsat` gives you an easy way to get data from Landsat-8 satellite available on AWS. The script `src/landsat/downloader.py` will download the full images from Landsat-8 (excluding band 8) and the BQA information. The images will be downloaded from a CSV file,  this repository include a file `dataset/images202009.csv`, but you can easily change the file in the `csv` variable. To download the data go to `src/landsat` diretory and run:

```
python downloader.py
```

The images will be saved in the `dataset/images/tif_images/` folder.

After the download of the images you can create the masks with the script `src/landsat/create_masks.py`. This will process the Landsat-8 images and create active fire masks based on the literature algorithm. The masks will be saved in the `dataset/masks/patches/` folder and will be named after the algorithm used to create them. This means that masks created by the [Kumar and Roy (2018)](https://doi.org/10.1080/17538947.2017.1391341) algorithm will be named with the sufix `*_Kumar-Roy.TIF`. The masks generated by [Murphy et al. (2016)](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rse.2016.02.027) conditions will be named `*_Murphy.TIF`. And the images created by [Schroeder  et  al.  (2016)](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rse.2015.08.032) will be named `*_Schroeder.TIF`.

Besides this masks we used artificial masks created by the combination of the previous one. You will find a script `src/utils/make_masks.py` that can help you to create this artificial masks. It will generate a mask based on the intersection of the previous masks and the voting of occurence of fire, where at least two masks must agree where fire occurs. These masks will be saved at `dataset/masks/intersection` and `dataset/masks/voting` folders.